Streamlit \+ User Interface \+ features

- Streamlit is the library we'll be using to host the website, which will include various things such as graphs, tables, and current stock prices. Streamlit will make the process of implementing a neural network model and displaying the code that we will use which is Python to code the majority of our project as well. The way we want to design the web app, it will most likely include a drop down bar where we can select the stocks that we will want to see. For the tables it will show the prices of the specific stock such as the opening price, closing price and other prominent information as well to. We will also be able to see historical data spanning from 10 years out which will allow our users to make more informed decisions regarding the stocks they should pick and for them to be able to make better choices as well.  For our graphs we plan on demonstrating the stock predictor through the use of graphs which will implement linear regression and also help us to map out what might be the future price of the stock. These graphs will take on the data from our import which is yfinance and have it displayed in our tables and through our graphs as well to. We also plan on including a sentiment analysis portion through a ????feature of a table where we will be able to display the sentiments of the stocks as well. In addition to this there will also be a timeframe as well to where we can essentially drag when the prices were lower to the point it is at today. For our tech stack we will primarily be using streamlit for front end integration and for backend we will primarily use python as that will serve as our main language in order to code the neural network.

yfinance  
The yfinance API developed by Ran Aroussi is a free and open-source library. It allows access to financial data provided by Yahoo Finance and will be our main way of amassing market data. 

To predict the stock market, we are using neural networks. A neural network is a series of algorithms that train a computer to process data and recognize patterns in a structured manner mimicking the human brain. It consists of nodes that are connected, similar to neurons in the brain. Neural networks are layered with nodes, an input, output, and hidden layers in between. The nodes are connected to others and when activated send data to the next node when their outputs are above a specified value. These networks take time to train data to become more accurate and precise. Here is what IBM lists as the formula for the individual nodes:  
∑wixi \+ bias \= w1x1 \+ w2x2 \+ w3x3 ...+bias   
Where w=weight, x=input, bias= detection term  
It is important to note that because stock markets are liable to change, it is a challenge to have accurate predictions. LSTM provides algorithms that can help overcome these challenges. LSTM stands for Long Short-Term Memory. It processes single data points within sequences of data. The issue is that RNN (recurrent neural network) often forget older data, and cannot remember in longer sequences. This is where LSTM come, in as they are able to retain more information for longer periods of time, therefore analyzing patterns more efficiently. This is called the “Vanishing Gradient Problem.”  
For our project we have decided to implement an LSTM neural network

**References**  
IBM. (n.d.). *What is a Neural Network?* IBM. Retrieved October 31, 2024, from https://www.ibm.com/topics/neural-networks  
   
\[1\] Bland, Greg. “yfinance Library \- A Complete Guide \- AlgoTrading101 Blog.” *Quantitative Trading Ideas and Guides \- AlgoTrading101 Blog*, 3 Nov. 2020, [algotrading101.com/learn/yfinance-guide](http://algotrading101.com/learn/yfinance-guide).

K. R. Reddy, B. T. Kumar, V. R. Ganesh, P. Swetha and P. K. Sarangi, "Stock Market Prediction Using Recurrent Neural Network," 2022 IEEE International Conference on Current Development in Engineering and Technology (CCET), Bhopal, India, 2022, pp. 1-4, doi: 10.1109/CCET56606.2022.10080154. keywords: {Deep learning;Recurrent neural networks;Machine learning algorithms;Heuristic algorithms;Predictive models;Prediction algorithms;Stock markets;Stock Market;Stock Market Prediction;RNN;LSTM},

